The term 'Broken Windows Theory' has been tossed around a lot in the past few decades here in New York City. For those who don't know, the theory posits that the key to reducing serious crime is to first take care of the smaller infractions to the public good. An excerpt from Wikipedia explains the reasoning behind the theory:

"James Q. Wilson and George L. Kelling first introduced the broken windows theory in an article titled Broken Windows, in the March 1982 The Atlantic Monthly. The title comes from the following example:

Consider a building with a few broken windows. If the windows are not repaired, the tendency is for vandals to break a few more windows. Eventually, they may even break into the building, and if it's unoccupied, perhaps become squatters or light fires inside.

Or consider a pavement. Some litter accumulates. Soon, more litter accumulates. Eventually, people even start leaving bags of refuse from take-out restaurants there or even break into cars."

As contentious as this theory has been, I believe that it has some merit. I propose that we use the NYC open data project, which is a large collection of public data sources, to test aspects of this theory.

For my proposal, I have utilized the NYPD complaint historical data set, and the 311 service request data set to show some one interesting relationship, and one bit of data that I think is worth exploring. To show that there may be some value in this exploration, first I had to whittle down the vast amount of data provided. I first divided the data into geographical bins of 0.2 degrees latitude and longitude. Then, I found the bin with the largest variability on a month to month basis to examine. The first plot I have provided shows a linear regression on the number of felony and misdemeanor crimes and the same on the number of 311 complaints between 2010 and 2015. As can be seen, 311 service request go up, and NYPD complaints go down. There is a negative correlation between the two. My initial assumption is that as time goes on, more people learn about the services that 311 provide, and assuming a fixed percentage of those service requests get answered, more requests are resolved. If the Broken Windows Theory is to believed, this is a direct cause of the drop in NYPD complaints. The second plot shows a breakdown of the top 30 311 service request categories. I believe that these categories can be analyzed in relation to NYPD complaints. Through various machine learning techniques, it may even prove possible to predict crime, and possibly even categories of crime in the future with this data.